# IMPACT-OF-COVID-19-ON-FISHERIES-EXPORT-AND-IMPORT-IN-INDIA


This work is an attempt to examine the effect of COVID-19 on the export and import of fish and fisheries products in India (quantity in tons). The study also discusses about the calculation of the compound annual growth rate of the export of fish and fisheries products from India. The data was taken for a period of 15 years from 2007 to 2021, for the study purpose. The analysis was done by using the software R, SPSS, and EXCEL. The time series model SARIMA (Seasonal Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average) was used to forecast the export and import of fish and fish products for the monthly data in 2020 and 2021. The SARIMA models were evaluated on the basis of their efficiency in modelling and providing an accurate forecast. After calculating the forecasted quantity, the expected price was also calculated using the actual price and quantity. The expected price was found to be greater than the actual price. This might be due to the export of less quantity than the forecasted quantity due to port closures, loss of access to cold storage, cessation of shipping and air freight, lack of fish catch, market, and delays in supply chain due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Therefore, it could be concluded that the commodities are affected by COVID-19. And also, in some months, the expected price is lower than the actual price. This might be due to the countries' hoarding of particular commodities before the spread of COVID-19 and the lockdown, price drops, international trading agreements, etc. The CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) value of the export of fish and fisheries products before and after the COVID-19 was calculated. From the values, it was learned that the compound annual growth rate values decreased after the COVID-19 pandemic. This might be due to shops, eateries, factories, transport services, and business establishments being shuttered during the COVID-19 pandemic. And also, the lockdown had a negative impact to slow down fisheries the sector and the economy.

OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
1) To study the effect of covid-19 on the export of fish and fisheries products from India.
2) To study the effect of covid-19 on the import of fish and fisheries products to India.
3) To study the effect of covid-19 on the growth rate of export of fish and fisheries products.
